Kübra Gümüşay is a journalist.
The feminist author’s main topics are immigration,
society, digitalisation and Islam.
The initiative “Die Offene Gesellschaft” (“The open society”) developed in 2016 as a reaction to the 500,000 applications for asylum that had been made in Germany the previous year.
In 2018, Kübra Gümüşay is a guest speaker at the initiative’s annual picnic.
Many people have withdrawn from public discourse
because it has become so toxic and hardened,
because it involves so much provocation and hatred.
And so I ask myself:
Where can we still meet up and reflect together?
Where can we come up with completely new visions
and also share thoughts that are stupid or unfinished?
And if we have no spaces for these discussions
then we can’t shape the future,
we are nothing but reactionary forces
that just become more and more hardened and homogenous
as the years go by.
Thank you.
Unemployment and the distribution of wealth
are topics that we discuss far too little in Germany.
We are constantly talking about refugees, Islam, religion, identity...
Am I too fast?
What is wrong with states that can’t react to something like this?
Why do we have an international community,
why do we have international alliances if they don’t react?
I am happy for such an initiative to happen in a field,
out in the open, in the sunshine, at a huge table
and with an open society actually happening around us.
In Hamburg, I lived by a big, busy crossroads.
One day a water pipe broke and the whole street was closed off.
Suddenly you could see how much space there is
when it’s not taken up by cars.
With the cars gone, people started to picnic in the street,
to drink beer and make music.
Cars take up so much living space
just like planes would have done here,
and now we have that space.
Usually if there is open space in a big city
it’s all thought through and finished.
What surprises me here is that it’s so unfinished.
I think that shows a lot of serenity within society
which is also unfinished and needs creative space.
It’s very symbolic and surprising
for a city like Berlin where each square metre is fought over,
to have so much space that is not formalised
or planned or built on.
Berlin can count itself lucky to have such a strong civil society.
That’s not the case everywhere in Germany.
It also means a certain responsibility
and it’s great when the people of Berlin
can have a positive impact on the rest of the country.